Release 3.41 (#5471)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2022/release-3.41.md

###  Batch specs can now mount local files on steps containers (experimental)

As we improve Batch Changes, we're heavily focusing on making it easy to write and debug batch specs. Iteration time needs to be as small as possible, so that users can quickly put together a spec, run it, see results, and quickly improve on it.

Many users have custom tooling or scripts that they run as batch changes steps. The only way to do that until now was to bake those scripts into the step container, or to copy paste the scripts directly in the spec using [steps.files](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#steps-files). Both options slow down iterating on batch changes, requiring either to rebuild the container at each modification, or to copy paste code inside YAML.

Now you can directly mount files or directories on the batch change container using [steps.mount](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#steps-mount). This is an experimental feature that's only supported when running batch changes locally. Lots of improvements are on the way ([issue](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/14851)).

> We're committed to making iterating on batch changes as fast as possible. Feedback welcome on what slows you down!

Reviewer: @malomarrec Want to add a way to provide feedback here? feedback@sourcegraph.com?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're committed to iterating on batch changes as fast as possible. Feedback welcome on what slows you down!
```

Author: This is not what is meant here. We're committed to making iterating on batch changes as fast as possible, _for the user_.

Reviewer: @malomarrec Got it. Can I take another stab at wording this? The original wording looked like a typo to me.

```suggestion
We're committed to making the process of iterating on batch changes as fast as possible for users. Feedback welcome on what slows you down!
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're committed to making the process of iterating on batch changes as fast as possible. Feedback welcome on what slows you down!
```

## Sort and filter "detect and track patterns" code insights series 

<!-- TODO: add screenshot of sorting --> 

Detect and track patterns charts now allow setting the series sort order and number (up to 20) of series. This means you can set an insight with greater than 20 match patterns to show the 1-20 most or least common series by match count; oldest or newest version by series name; or oldest-added or newest-added versions by date appearing in the codebase. Previously, if there were greater than 20 match patterns, it returned a random set of 20 each session.

## Sourcegraph Extensions

### Allow only extensions authored by Sourcegraph

> You can now restrict users to only use Sourcegraph-authored extensions by setting [`extensions.allowOnlySourcegraphAuthoredExtensions`](../config/site_config.md) to `true` in your site configuration. This allows you to easily enforce that any extensions you are using are built and supported by Sourcegraph.

Reviewer: @ryankscott, what's the customer impact for this? Are non-native extensions seen as dangerous/untrustworthy?

Reviewer 2: @iskyOS they _may_ be untrustworthy, they are open source so you can inspect / scan the code to determine. More importantly if you're using our extensions you'll get our support, be covered by our SLAs and contractual guarantees etc.

Reviewer: @abschu @ryankscott  What do you think about adding an explicit mention of the SLA here? Something like: 
"While we encourage trying out open source extensions from the community, this setting may be valuable for those teams who want to ensure all of their extensions are covered by Sourcegraph support and SLAs."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now restrict users to only use Sourcegraph-authored extensions by setting [`extensions.allowOnlySourcegraphAuthoredExtensions`](../config/site_config.md) to `true` in your site configuration. This allows you to easily enforce that any extensions you are using are built and supported by Sourcegraph. While we encourage trying out open source extensions from the community, this setting may be valuable for those teams who want to ensure all of their extensions are directly supported by Sourcegraph.
```

Many users have custom tooling or scripts that they run as batch changes steps. The only way to do that until now was to bake those scripts into the step container, or to copy paste the scripts directly in the spec using [steps.files](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#steps-files). Both options slow down iterating on batch changes, requiring either to rebuild the container at each modification, or to copy paste code inside YAML.

Now you can directly mount files or directories on the batch change container using [steps.mount](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#steps-mount). This is an experimental feature that's only supported when running batch changes locally. Lots of improvements are on the way ([issue](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/14851)).

We're committed to making iterating on batch changes as fast as possible. Feedback welcome on what slows you down!

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

## Sort and filter "detect and track patterns" code insights series 

<!-- TODO: add screenshot of sorting --> 

Detect and track patterns charts now allow setting the series sort order and number (up to 20) of series. This means you can set an insight with greater than 20 match patterns to show the 1-20 most or least common series by match count; oldest or newest version by series name; or oldest-added or newest-added versions by date appearing in the codebase. Previously, if there were greater than 20 match patterns, it returned a random set of 20 each session.
```

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.41 release'
publishDate: 2022-06-21T10:00-07:00
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.41 introduces running batch changes server-side, file mounting for the batch change container, greater pattern tracking in Code Insights, and admin settings to restrict extensions to those authored by Sourcegraph.'
tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.41'
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/3.41/sourcegraph-3-41-release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/3.41/sourcegraph-3-41-release.png
changelogItems: 

>   - description: 'Added a new templating variable, batch_change_link, to give more control over where the "Created by Sourcegraph batch change ..." message appears in the published changeset description. This message would occasionally break CI workflows that parsed the bottom of a message; it can now be moved accordingly.'

Reviewer: This actually shows up as "Created by Sourcegraph batch change _X_" where X is the name of the batch change. We can drop the ellipses since that's not a literal part of the message

>   - description: 'Added a new templating variable, batch_change_link, to give more control over where the "Created by Sourcegraph batch change ..." message appears in the published changeset description. This message would occasionally break CI workflows that parsed the bottom of a message; it can now be moved accordingly.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: 'Added a new templating variable, batch_change_link, to give more control over where the "Created by Sourcegraph batch change" message appears in the published changeset description. This message would occasionally break CI workflows that parsed the bottom of a message; it can now be moved accordingly.'
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/35319
    category: Batch Changes
  - description: Added `sort` and `limit` filters for capture group insights. This gives Code Insights users more control over which series are displayed.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/34611
    category: Code Insights
  - description: 'Commit and diff search: The hard limit of 50 repositories has been removed, so you can now run broader searches. Long-running searches will continue running until the timeout is hit.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/36486
    category: Search

>   - description: 'Zoekt-indexserver has a new debug landing page, /debug, which exposes information about the queue, the list of indexed repositories, and the list of assigned repositories for easier visual debugging. Admins can reach the debug landing page by going to the site admin view and selecting Instrumentation > indexed-search-indexer > Debug.'

Reviewer: In thise case 'indexed-search-indexer' is where the name of the user's indexer will appear, so that isn't a literal button name. I can make that more clear:

```suggestion
  - description: 'Zoekt-indexserver has a new debug landing page, /debug, which exposes information about the queue, the list of indexed repositories, and the list of assigned repositories for easier visual debugging. Admins can reach the debug landing page by going to the site admin view and selecting "Instrumentation" > indexed-search-indexer > "Debug".'
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/zoekt/pull/346
    category: Admin
---
 
Sourcegraph 3.41 is now available! Here are some highlights from this release:

## Running batch changes server-side is moving to beta

Until now, you had to run `src-cli` locally to create your batch changes. `src-cli` pulls repo archives through Sourcegraph, and runs your batch spec to create diffs. For large amounts of repositories or resource-intensive code rewrites, running `src-cli` locally could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle.

Today, we're announcing that you can now run [batch changes server-side (beta)](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side). 

> Setting up running batch changes server-side allows you to:

Reviewer 4: @iskyOS - Should this just be "Using/setting up batch changes server-side allows you to:"

Reviewer: Yes - definitely.

```suggestion
Running batch changes server-side allows you to:
```

- Run large-scale or resource intensive batch changes without clogging your local machine.
- Run large batch changes faster by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances.
- Get a better debugging experience, with logs being streamed directly into Sourcegraph.
- Simplify setup for local users (no local `src-cli`) by having the Sourcegraph admin manage server-side setup.

This is the outcome of months of iteration on the experimental version of the feature, and we're grateful to early users for their feedback!

This feature requires admins to setup [executors](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/executors) (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run Code Intelligence [auto-indexing](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/how-to/enable_auto_indexing) (experimental).

##  Batch specs can now mount local files on steps containers (experimental)

> As we improve Batch Changes, we're heavily focusing on making it easy to write and debug batch specs. Iteration time needs to be as small as possible, so that users can quickly put together a spec, run it, see results, and quickly improve on it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As we improve Batch Changes, we're focused on making it easy to write and debug batch specs. Iteration time needs to be as small as possible, so that users can quickly put together a spec, run it, see results, and quickly improve on it.
```

Many users have custom tooling or scripts that they run as batch changes steps. The only way to do that until now was to bake those scripts into the step container, or to copy paste the scripts directly in the spec using [steps.files](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#steps-files). Both options slow down iterating on batch changes, requiring either to rebuild the container at each modification, or to copy paste code inside YAML.

Now you can directly mount files or directories on the batch change container using [steps.mount](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#steps-mount). This is an experimental feature that's only supported when running batch changes locally. Lots of improvements are on the way ([issue](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/14851)).

We're committed to making iterating on batch changes as fast as possible. Feedback welcome on what slows you down!

## Sort and filter "detect and track patterns" code insights series 

<!-- TODO: add screenshot of sorting --> 

> Detect and track patterns charts now allow setting the series sort order and number (up to 20) of series. This means you can set an insight with greater than 20 match patterns to show the 1-20 most or least common series by match count; oldest or newest version by series name; or oldest-added or newest-added versions by date appearing in the codebase. Previously, if there were greater than 20 match patterns, it returned a random set of 20 each session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Detect and track patterns charts now allow setting the series sort order and number (up to 20) of series. This means you can set an insight with greater than 20 match patterns to show the 1-20 most or least common series by match count; oldest or newest version by series name; or oldest-added or newest-added versions by date appearing in the codebase. Previously, if there were greater than 20 match patterns, it returned a random set of 20 each session.

```

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.41 release'
publishDate: 2022-06-21T10:00-07:00
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.41 introduces running batch changes server-side, file mounting for the batch change container, greater pattern tracking in Code Insights, and admin settings to restrict extensions to those authored by Sourcegraph.'
tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.41'
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/3.41/sourcegraph-3-41-release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/3.41/sourcegraph-3-41-release.png
changelogItems: 

>   - description: 'A new templating variable, batch_change_link has been added for more control over where the "Created by Sourcegraph batch change ..." message appears in the published changeset description.'

Reviewer 4: @malomarrec @lcolston08 @iskyOS - Can we re-write this in active voice: "Added a new templating variable, batch_change_link, to give you control over where the...." And then add a sentence on what the value is/why someone would do this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: 'Added a new templating variable, batch_change_link, to give you more control over where the "Created by Sourcegraph batch change ..." message appears in the published changeset description.'
```

Reviewer: I understand that this allows you to customize the changeset description so that you don't need to have the Sourcegraph backlink always at the end of the message. @malomarrec are there specific instances or use cases where someone would want to put the backlink in the middle / top of the description?

Author: Yes: CIs workflow that parse the bottom of the message can break if you put them at the end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: 'Added a new templating variable, batch_change_link, to give more control over where the "Created by Sourcegraph batch change ..." message appears in the published changeset description. This message would occasionally break CI workflows that parsed the bottom of a message; it can now be moved accordingly.'
```

How's this?

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/35319
    category: Batch Chanages

>   - description: Sort and limit filters have been added to capture group insights. This gives Code Insights users more control over which series are displayed.

Reviewer 4: @Joelkw @iskyOS - rewrite in active voice "Added sort and limit filters to give Code Insights users more control over which series are displayed." What are group insights?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: Added sort and limit filters to capture group insights. This gives Code Insights users more control over which series are displayed.
```

Reviewer: I believe this is referring to insights using a "capture group", a feature of regex to find instances of text patterns. @Joelkw can you confirm?

@abschu for reference: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/automatically_generated_data_series#regular-expression-capture-group-resources

Reviewer 3: correct! "Capture group" is the phrase, not the verb "capture" plus noun "group."

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/34611
    category: Code Insights
  - description: 'Commit and diff search: The hard limit of 50 repositories has been removed, so you can now run broader searches. Long-running searches will continue running until the timeout is hit.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/36486
    category: Search

>   - description: 'Zoekt-indexserver has a new debug landing page, /debug, which exposes information about the queue, the list of indexed repositories, and the list of assigned repositories for easier visual debugging. Admins can reach the debug landing page by selecting Instrumentation > indexed-search-indexer from the site admin view. The debug page is linked at the top.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - description: 'Zoekt-indexserver has a new debug landing page, /debug, which exposes information about the queue, the list of indexed repositories, and the list of assigned repositories for easier visual debugging. Admins can reach the debug landing page by going to the site admin view and selecting Instrumentation > indexed-search-indexer > Debug.'
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/zoekt/pull/346
    category: Admin
---
 
Sourcegraph 3.41 is now available! Here are some highlights from this release:

## Running batch changes server-side is moving to Beta

Until now, you had to run `src-cli` locally to create your batch changes. `src-cli` pulls repo archives through Sourcegraph, and runs your batch spec to create diffs. For large amounts of repositories or resource-intensive code rewrites, running `src-cli` locally could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle.

Today, we're announcing that you can now run [batch changes server-side (beta)](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side). 

> Setting up running batch changes server-side allows to:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Setting up running batch changes server-side allows you to:
```

- Run large-scale or resource intensive batch changes without clogging your local machine.

> - Run large batch changes faster by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Run large batch changes faster by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances.
```

- Get a better debugging experience, with logs being streamed directly into Sourcegraph.

> - Trade-off a little more setup for the Sourcegraph admin, against less setup for users (no local `src-cli`)

Author: yes, I think the meaning is equivalent

> - Trade-off a little more setup for the Sourcegraph admin, against less setup for users (no local `src-cli`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Simplify setup for local users (no local `src-cli`) by having the Sourcegraph admin manage server-side setup.
```

Many users have custom tooling or scripts that they run as batch changes steps. The only way to do that until now was to bake those scripts into the step container, or to copy paste the scripts directly in the spec using [steps.files](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#steps-files). Both options slow down iterating on batch changes, requiring either to rebuild the container at each modification, or to copy paste code inside YAML.

Now you can directly mount files or directories on the batch change container using [steps.mount](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#steps-mount). This is an experimental feature that's only supported when running batch changes locally. Lots of improvements are on the way ([issue](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/14851)).

We're committed to making the process of iterating on batch changes as fast as possible. Submit feedback through your Sourcegraph account manager, or raise an issue [here](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/new?title=Batch%20changes:&body=@batchers%20this%20is%20an%20issue%20for%20you)!

> ## Sort and filter "detect and track patterns" code insights series 

Reviewer 4: @Joelkw - should this be Sort and filter "detect and track patterns" in Code Insights series 

(I added "in" and capitalized Code Insights).

Reviewer 3: No, no "in," these are the types of insights/series, but good question. Not sure about capitalization, I think lower case since it's a product detail but no strong pref

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/35319
    category: Batch Chanages
  - description: Sort and limit filters have been added to capture group insights. This gives users more control over which series are displayed.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/34611
    category: Code Insights
  - description: 'Commit and diff search: The hard limit of 50 repositories has been removed, so you can now run broader searches. Long-running searches will continue running until the timeout is hit.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/36486
    category: Search
  - description: 'Zoekt-indexserver has a new debug landing page, /debug, which exposes information about the queue, the list of indexed repositories, and the list of assigned repositories for easier visual debugging. Admins can reach the debug landing page by selecting Instrumentation > indexed-search-indexer from the site admin view. The debug page is linked at the top.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/zoekt/pull/346
    category: Admin
---
 
Sourcegraph 3.41 is now available! Here are some highlights from this release:

## Batch Changes

> ### Running batch changes server-side is moving to Beta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Server-side batch changes are now available in Beta
```

@malomarrec, when you say "server-side batch changes", do you always keep "batch changes" lowercase?
Also @lcolston08 for your vis!

Author: @iskyOS the name that we agreed upon previously was to drop server-side batch changes, and to use "running batch changes server-side"
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AhuTd7NtzaBLu3CBpr-lr7JO_0Sc-yj6kTRW_9j8RYU/edit#heading=h.j70r4vtdxyp1
This is to avoid it being treated as a "product"

Reviewer: Thanks for the context!
